[MUSIC]
>> Scott Moss: Let's just evaluate what's
actually going on here with this async
stuff cuz I did a bit of an abstraction.
Does anybody actually
understand what I'm doing here?
You get it, you looked at it?
So I'll just walk there real quick,
let's go to that actual function, first,
async action creators.
Cuz I have this function
called createAsyncCreator.
The reason I call that because you're
actually making a async creator.
You're making a function that's gonna
create an action, but it's async.
So that's why it's called
createAsyncCreator.
And it takes in a startAction, so
the action you want to dispatch
before you write a async function.
This will give you a chance to do UI
things like show a loading spinner or
something like that.
Like I would dispatch loading true.
And then somewhere in my UI,
it's gonna be listening for
loading to be true and
it's gonna load a loading spinner, right?
And the endAction.
So, hey, when this async operation is
done, what action do you wanna dispatch?
And then the actual
asyncFn you want to run.
So what it's doing is it's going to,
it's expecting you to dispatch
this because it's going to return
the third care given the dispatch
just like we did in another example.
So it's gonna go ahead and
dispatch that startAction with no payload,
just a startAction by itself,
no payload, so you can use it or not.
And then I'm just gonna go ahead and
create the dispatchEndAction,
I'm not dispatching it yet, I'm just
creating it, I parse in the action type.
This is gonna return a function that takes
a payload, we're gonna use it later on.
And then I'm gonna invoke that asycnFn
that you parsed in, also parse in
the dispatch here just in case inside that
asycnFn you wanna use dispatch in there.
Maybe you do, maybe you don't but
I'm just gonna parse it in.
And then,
whatever the result that asyncFn is,
I'm automatically gonna dispatch it with
the given endAction that you provided.
So I'm gonna dispatch it there, and
then I'm just gonna go ahead and
dispatch any errors, if any.
>> Scott Moss: All right?
So that's what the createAsyncCreator
is doing, so we go ahead and
actually look at the async functions.
In this case, I say fetchCurrentWorkout,
so we're implicitly,
we're doing an implicit return here,
implicitly return AsyncCreator.
Which takes the first
action we want to call,
in this case we're not even doing
anything with it but it's there.
The endAction which is actually important,
that's what's changing the state, and
then just an anonymous
function right here.
That's returning api.get
(current_workout).
So this is an anonymous function.
This is the function, if you go back and
look, let's close all these tabs,
if we, I have so many tabs open.
>> Scott Moss: There we go.
So this function is the actual function
that's being called, here, asyncFn.
That's the function that's being called,
and we're parsing in dispatch.
So that means, I could use dispatch in
here to if I wanted to because we're
getting dispatch, but I didn't need it.
So I wanna do dispatch, it's not that
I can dispatch something here too, but
I don't need to.
So this brings us to this API helper.
So it was really nice.
Instead of using the fetch everywhere and
use and creating headers all over again,
and write the URL all over again, I just
made a API helper that did it all for us.
So if you go look at the API helper.
This is two methods in here.
We put the headers at the top,
made a function to check the status
because if the fetch API doesn't
error out on status codes,
it doesn't error out
on status code at all.
So you gotta check yourself.
I think it should have done that but,
so, that's what I'm doing here,
I'm saying if the status is
greater than 200, it's an error or
less than 300.
>> Scott Moss: I'm sorry,
if it's not then throw an error.
So that's what I'm doing here.
And then I also just made a quick function
just to parse the JSON cuz we're gonna do
that on every single response.
So now, all I have to do is a say
fetch with the given path and
then I put the default headers,
check the status,
then parse to JSON and send that back.
So this is what's gonna get
attached to the payload over here.
Whatever this returns, that's what's
gonna get attach to the payload.
Same thing for POST.
Take a path, take some data to post,
headers, body, stringify,
check the status, parse to JSON.
So this is a helper method
around the fetch, so
we don't have to do this
everywhere in our app.
We can just say API.post,
API.get, API.put, whatever.
Everybody follow me there.
So this is just an abstraction.
It's a lot cleaner.
So now, if we head into the meat and
potatoes,
the currentWorkout, the first thing we
need to do is we have the currentWorkout,
we have the exerciseModal,
we have the exercises.
We got addExercise here but
it's dispatching the static one, so
let's get rid of that.
We don't want addExercise.
And in fact, what we want to do is we
want to use these two methods right here.
fetchCurrentWorkout and
addExerciseToCurrentWorkout.
Those are the action
creators that we have.
So those are the two that we want.
So we'll come down here and we'll say
addExercise is actually going to dispatch
addExerciseToCurrentWorkout which
is really verbose.
And we'll say exercise and
then we'll make a new
method called
fetchCurrentWorkout which is just
going to return
dispatch(fetchCurrentWorkout)
>> Scott Moss: Which is right here.
>> Scott Moss: So now we have those,
we traded this to be the async one and
not the sync one and
then we made a new one
called fetchCurrentWorkout.
So, the async one for
addExercise should all ready be good,
we're already using it here,
so that should be fine.
We actually shouldn't
have to do anything here.
But we want to first to work out,
so when this loads up, so
componentDidMount is a life
cycle hook we can use in React.
This function is gonna be called
when the component mounts
on the app the first time.
So we can just uncomment that.
And we can say
this.props.fetchCurrentWorkout which is
gonna be this, it's gonna dispatch and
get the current workout which if there
is anything in the current workout
it is going to update the current
workout state or not there.
The currentWorkout state.
Here, which is then gonna change the props
which is then gonna call it rerender.
So let's save that.
Let's start our server.
>> Scott Moss: And
we can say json-server db.jason, cool.
So, here's our path,
we got a current_workout,
that's the only one that we got.
So now if we hit Start Workout,
we get an error because.
>> Scott Moss: Why do we get an error?
componentDidMount, this.fetch,
I'll just refresh this I think.
I think it just needs a good refreshing.
There we go, yeah,
it just need to be refreshed.
So if we go look at the server, I'll put,
>> Scott Moss: Actually didn't,
I think I got the wrong URL in here.
Let's go back and look, API.
Yeah, I think I got to use the IP
address for some reason on my machine.
Let's do that.
>> Scott Moss: Here
we go.
>> Scott Moss: And
let's reload.
>> Scott Moss: Okay, now let's look.
So there we go,
it did a fetch on the current_workout,
it did a 200, and that happened
because in the Current Workout we said
componentDidMount fetchCurrentWorkout.
And that didn't return anything so
there is nothing here.
So let's actually add some workouts.
>> Scott Moss: And we'll say lunges,
we're gonna add lunges here,
so we'll click lunges.
Cannot read property render or
name on the find renderRow.
Workout list.
>> Scott Moss: exercise.name.
>> Scott Moss: What are you talking
about?
>> Scott Moss: I don't know
what the error was but it definitely said
it's a survey and loaded back up here.
I think I just clicked too many times and
it was freaking out
because it wasn't closing.
Let's try that again.
So we clicked this.
Let's put flat dumbbell.
>> Scott Moss: What is that?
47.
>> Scott Moss: That's weird,
it's like errored out but
it's still working at the same time.
Let's check out the error.
Everybody following me so far?
That's basically all
the changes we have to do.
There's just some small errors in my JSX,
I need to fix.
That's obviously breaking somewhere but
the Redux stuff is working perfectly fine.